# 期末复习

## lab1-3

MPI

broadcast gather

virtualization

docker

## lab4

API Architecture Pattern

MicroService  what is it, main features, what can you derive from the definition

## lab5

definition of RPC: 3 points

concerns不用记，但understand

other scenarios, application scenarios of RPC?

stop at benefits, think of why have advantage: protobuf?

Java RMI.

General questions for RPC

## lab6

just need to understand page4

how to encode不考

understand什么意思，multiplexing等等

## lab7

keep page2 in mind, abcdef点表示什么意思

benefits可以记一下，可以推导

gRPC和RESTful API的区别很重要

no question about openapi, no code

## lab8

no question on other api architecture

important: diff between forward and reverse proxy

## lab9

hadoop种类？idea of hadoop

HDFS YARN MapReduce 是什么，有什么用，为什么用 page4

move computation不remove data

page5

principle, what is MapReduce

what reduce mean, what is output

## lab10

yarn: good to know, fundamental

Mapreducing: interesting

## lab11

why spark is important in mapreduce?

extract fundamental idea from

## lab12

what is virtualization? what is vm? advantages of vm?

VM monitors? what are they for

why need containers? diff between containers and vm?

docker architecture page5

what they are? relationship between components

dockercompose 不考

definition and features of K8S, page7 explain the features

diff between components / objects

components: working instances in clusters(a set of computer nodes)

resource/object: things user use

what kind of controller plane and work nodes have?

recommend way to manage nodes and advantage of tools : kuberctl!

not mention Kind, 和剩下的

## lab13

scheduler: how does it work , what does it mean to score node

remember 三种filtering，分析一下三种什么意思

diff selector和affinity

## lab14

5 特征 page2 全部记住

cloud service model重要

common cloud service啥的不考 iac不考

概念的定义和关系，需要计算的东西，搞清楚概念和小概念的关系和执行顺序是什么
